>> Kyle Simpson: Moving on to our
next topic in this unit, Prototypes.
This one is a biggie because this
one is from where all other object
oriented programming patterns
in JavaScript is done and
I want to make sure we fully
understand how Prototypes work.
So the first observation we need to make
is that objects are built by constructor
calls, not by constructors,
cause there aren't such a thing, but
objects are built by constructor calls.
What was a constructor call?
>> Speaker 2: A function called with
the new keyword.
>> Kyle Simpson: A function with the new
keyword in front of it.
That's essentially where
objects are gonna come from,
okay?
>> Kyle Simpson: Now,
it's often said that that constructor
call is gonna make that object based upon
a constructor's own prototype, but
this phrase based on is problematic.
So temporarily, just for a moment, I'm
going to take off my hat as a JavaScript
developer and talk more as a computer
scientist in the context of class design,
specifically classes that we
think about in C++ and Java.
Referring back to my own
experiences in computer science,
the way I was taught about things
Is the first metaphor they use to
describe the instantiation of a class,
is the blueprint metaphor.
The blueprint metaphor being,
there's a blueprint for a building, but
that building doesn't exist until
the builder takes that blueprint and
physically makes the building out of it,
right?
In a sense, that process of taking a
blueprint and making a building out of it.
I would argue the essence of
that is a copy operation.
Specifically, what I mean by that is the
characteristics listed in the blueprint
are copied to the physical building.
It is not that there's some kind of
live link relationship between the two.
That relationship exists,
only in the instant in which
we copy the characteristic from
blue print to physical building.
And then it ceases to
have that relationship.
If I go to the blueprint, and
I erase a wall It doesn't take the wall
out of the real building does it?
They're not linked.
If I go to the building and
I knock out a window, it doesn't erase
the window from the blueprint does it?
Because they're not live linked.
There was a copy.
There is a separation
in their relationship.
That relationship was
simply a copy relationship.
Furthermore when we talk about
inheritance in class-oriented coding,
the genetic metaphor is usually used.
Genetics like when you
biologically create an offspring.
So I have a son and when he was created,
biologically he got a copy of my DNA.
It was clearly a copy of my DNA
not my own DNA but a copy of it.
Now, we are two separate individuals.
If he breaks his leg,
my leg does not get broken.
If I lose my hair,
hopefully he doesn't lose his hair.
>> Kyle Simpson: Because our
relationship biologically
was a copy relationship.
Every follow that?
The same is true in class oriented coding.
When we instantiate something from a class
we conceptually think about
that as being a one time event.
We don't think about there as being
a link between the instance and
where it came from.
If a utility If a language allowed
you to instantiate an object,
and then modify the class definition
after you had instantiated the object,
would you expect for
that object instance to be able to
have the new behavior?
>> Kyle Simpson: If I broke my leg,
would you expect for
my son's leg to get broken?
There's a term for this,
it would be retroactive inheritance.
There's an actual term for it.
But most people don't choose to imply
retroactive inheritance as their
design pattern for their code.
So if you had a system that allowed
retroactive inheritance and you used it,
there's a more likely chance that people
reading that code might get a bit
confused.
Wait a minute.
This instance already exists, and
somehow you were able to magically give it
behavior that it did not have
at the time it was created at?
That is unusual.
Okay.
So back to JavaScript.
When we say based on that
sure implies to me at least,
reading that that phrase
implies that there was a copy.
That we made the object as a copy
of the constructor's prototype.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
it might surprise you when I point out
that JavaScript doesn't do copying.
If class systems imply
copying at the conceptual and
even at the physical level, and JavaScript
doesn't do copying, maybe that's our first
clue that JavaScript doesn't really quite
work the way we expect classes to work.
The more appropriate statement here is
that in JavaScript a constructor, or
a constructor call will make an object
linked to the constructor's prototype.
Not based on, not a copy of, but
a link to.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
there's a difference here,
conceptually and
physically between how we know C++ and
Java to have implemented classes, and
how this system that gets called
classes in JavaScript actually works.